so you've niched down but is it the
right Niche is the problem your Niche or
is the problem how you're applying your
Niche and social media this episode of
build your tribe is for you if you
already know the importance of Niche you
don't need to be convinced of that what
you're not sure is if you've chosen the
right Niche if you've picked one that's
maybe too narrow maybe your Niche is
oversaturated or maybe the problem is
your approach to social media
hey I'm shelene Johnson co-host of build
your tribe and the other half of this
team is my son Brock Brock and I do this
podcast together we kind of you know go
back and forth with content try to give
you a couple different perspectives the
other thing that we do together is we
coach people with their strategy on
social media specifically Instagram so
we have a a coaching membership program
it's called insta clubhub and the reason
why I mentioned that is because Brock
and I were recently auditing our
members and we discovered something very
interesting that I think is going to
answer a lot of questions for you and
I'm going to break it all down for you
in this episode but what we discovered
is that for some of almost 5050 when we
were auditing our members those who you
know they they we do a complete review
of their account and this is something
that we do for our members when they do
when they sign up to become an annual
member they get an A review of their
account and recently we discovered
people fell into three different groups
number one were the people who they just
hadn't figured out their Niche yet
that's not you number two were the
people who had figured out their Niche
but had probably selected the wrong
Niche and the third group of people were
people who had chosen the right Niche
but their strategy in social media was
missing the mark So in this episode what
I want to do is give you a really simple
way for you to do your own audit to the
best of your ability now it's kind of
hard some sometimes to to look at your
own content and realize what mistakes
you're making sometimes we're too close
to the problem to see the solution so
what I want to do is take you through a
series of questions first to determine
if in fact you have chosen the right
Niche so you just simply answer yes or
no to these questions number one are you
aware of other people who have been
successful in the same Niche when you
have free time do you naturally want to
learn more about this topic do you find
yourself excited to talk about this in
real life not just in social media
outside of social media do people ask
you questions about this topic if there
was no Financial payoff would you still
be excited to post about this type of
content in the arena in the area that
you've niched down do you have kind of a
unique perspective or a kind of a
different way of looking at it or maybe
even your own personal experience it
doesn't have to be like groundbreaking
but like you've got some kind of unique
take on this particular topic do you
have a relatively unique take something
that's a very personal reason why you're
interested in this Niche when you're
creating content or talking about this
topic does it get you energized or do
you feel drained do you have a
NeverEnding list of ideas and things you
want to talk about as it relates to the
subject are you truly passionate about
helping people related to the subject
this Niche do you have strong opinions
about this subject are you drawn to
other types of content whether it's on
TV or research or I guess depends on
your Niche but are you drawn to this
type of content this subject outside of
social media and not that you need to be
the person who's the most knowledgeable
about this particular subject but do you
feel very confident when you're
discussing this subject and lastly do
you feel like there's a solution or a
way to help people in this specific area
if you answered yes to 80% of those
questions there's a very good chance
you've got the right niche one thing you
don't have to worry about is is your
Niche oversaturated I promise no matter
what your Niche is there's enough people
in the world for you to make a viable
living from this to attract the right
kind of people in social media I don't
care what it is the only thing you might
want to consider is could you Niche down
even further so the more competitive
your particular Niche is the more
important it is for you to Niche down
even further let me give you a perfect
example and by the way you can change
your Niche all the time I will say that
right now my niche
on Instagram specifically is helping
menopausal women who want to live
vibrantly who who need help with their
hormones well guess what there's a
bajillion people in this Niche menopause
is literally having a moment but my
specific Niche the way I've Niche down
even further is I specifically help
women understand how they need to
exercise and eat in order to help manage
the chaos of their hormones that's how
I've niched down even further so I'm not
just speaking generally about hormones
or generally about menopause I'm
speaking specifically about adding
muscle and what type of cardiovascular
workout you need to do and how you need
to change your approach to nutrition so
that's my specific Niche I help people
specifically by showing them how to do
that helping them through that process
through my digital platforms so what is
your Niche because often times when
again I'm auditing Brock and I are
auditing some of our members and we're
looking they they've selected a niche if
you will but they're still so Broad and
their broad category that they're
niching down in if you will and that
broad category is highly saturated let
me give you an analogy if you're a
realtor in New York City and you simply
say I sell condos and apartments and
homes to people who are looking to
purchase you don't have a specific
neighborhood and you don't have a
specific clientele AKA and Avatar in
order to truly understand how to Niche
down even further you need to be more
specific and we're so afraid to be very
specific with our niches because a lot
of times we feel like well if I just say
I am someone who specializes in the
Upper East Side well then aren't I going
to miss out on the opportunity to
represent a buyer or a seller on the
upper west side I mean New York City is
a big city but by selecting one specific
area think about it you're able to farm
as they say that area you know the
square footage you know the person who
wants to live in that area you know a
incredible prices you know how to help a
seller price their their property you
know how specifically to offer so that
your clients are best represented when
you're trying to buy a property like
you're able to really identify who it is
you want to help and how it is you're
able to help them when we go too broad
with our niche we don't really expand
our Market what we do is we limit our
ability to stand out and if you want to
stand out you got to Niche down even
further now if you answered no to 20% or
more of those questions my friend you've
got some work to do in the area of Niche
maybe you're bored with it maybe it's
just not interesting to you anymore
maybe what you think you've done is
selected a niche but really what you've
done is you've selected an
opportunity something to sell and you're
thinking about the industry as opposed
to defining your Niche who it is you
want to help how it is you want to help
them how the type of content that you
want to Niche down with so if you're
confident you've chosen the right Niche
and you're pretty sure you've niched
down enough know this you will benefit
from tightening your Niche even more you
want to be the go-to person you want to
be the standout person in a very broad
market and the only way that's going to
happen is if you're the first person
that comes to mind when people think
about this topic if someone were putting
on a big event and they're looking for
an expert in your
Niche What specifically would they say
like oh you got to call shelene Johnson
you got to call so and so you want to be
that person who you're like the go-to
you are the expert for this very
specific exact thing you can't speak on
a whole bunch of things you are the go
to on this very teeny tiny microcosm of
your Niche the more you Niche down the
more impact you're going to make the
more you're going to stand out all right
having said that let's just assume
moving forward that you're like no okay
I'm so Niche down it is so tight and I'm
excited about it I answered yes to most
of those questions so shelene why isn't
this working why aren't I making
money you probably fall into that third
category that we talked about out that
person who's got the right Niche they've
niched down far enough but the problem
is their social media strategy isn't
Landing how do you know if that's what's
going on with you now I'm going to take
you through a series of questions to
help you figure out if in fact it's your
strategy it's your application frankly
it's your social media skills that are
killing your business frankly it's your
social media strategy it's your social
media skills or lack thereof
that's killing your your business it's
killing your growth all right let me
take you through some questions and the
first one is really simple do you suck
at social media I mean because I feel
like a lot of people know they're like
I'm horrible I can't get any engagement
I'm not getting any likes nobody's
sharing my content uh I and I know I
suck like I I know my content I wouldn't
even watch my content if that's your
answer you don't even have to go through
the rest of questions we we now know
that's the problem okay but let's let's
continue through this because maybe
you're just being hard on yourself when
you look at your last 10 to 20 posts on
Instagram let's use Instagram
specifically how often are people
sharing your content now you've got to
look at your insights and of course in
order to see these insights you need to
either be a business or a Creator
account so take a look at your insights
if it's not happening on a regular basis
then my friend you are not creating
sharew worthy content you're not
creating the type of content that's
attracting that specific Niche person
who's looking for the solution that you
have this could mean it could mean that
your content isn't specific enough maybe
you've decided how specifically you can
help people but your content's too broad
if you're not creating content that
people are like o I need to save this
now I want you to look at the insights
related to your saves if you're not
creating content that's like okay this
is super interesting I want to remember
this later I want to revisit this later
if people aren't saving your content
that means it's just not interesting
enough to revisit which is a strong
indicator the problem isn't your Niche
the problem is your social media next
when you look at comments and engagement
how often are those comments and
engagement from relatively new people or
people who specifically have this
problem how often is that happening or
is it more likely that you're going to
get comments from people who already
know you friends and family people
who've been following you for a long
time or Worse you're getting comments
from Bots if the case is the later
meaning you're getting comments from
people who already know you friends
family and Bots that means we're not
attracting we're not speaking to we're
not creating content that your avatar is
specifically looking for or you're not
creating content that's engaging so
either way the problem isn't your Niche
the problem is your social media I mean
I know this is some tough love and for
some of you like I said you you already
know the problem is your social media so
I guess the question I I have for you
which you need to answer this are you
willing are you able are you are you
excited enough about your Niche and
about your business to put in the work
to get good at it because I'm telling
you social media it's just a skill it's
a skill which means
anybody can get better at it anyone can
you just have to put in the effort right
there's a lot of things like even
technology there's so many things that
the first time you do it you're like oh
this is really hard I don't I don't know
if I'm good at this but if you do it
enough and you have a why that's strong
enough you're going to get good at it
and if you believe in your message if
you believe in the solution that you
have if you not just believe in it but
you you know that it can help other
people and you need it to like this is
your mission this is your passion this
is your purpose this is why you are
posting on social media then you got to
get good at it like why waste time
creating subpar content are you
following content creators in your Niche
who are killing
it specifically the type of content
creators where you're like okay I could
do something like that for example if
I'm following Dr Mary Clare Haver who is
the author of the new menopause and
she's obviously in the same Niche but
she's a doctor and she specifically is
looking at research and breaking it down
and talking about her clinical
applications she's talking about
treating women with hormone replacement
therapy in real life and if I'm just
watching her content and I'm like oh
she's killing it man she's got millions
of followers I got to do something like
it's pointless for me to even watch her
content for that inspo because that's
not my specific Niche inside of our
bigger niche of menopause so I I need to
be following people who are killing it
in my very unique tight space and I
promise you this you will find them you
need to look harder if this is important
to you success leaves Clues and this
doesn't mean that you copy their content
exactly but if you're watching people in
your Niche that are doing something that
you can't do you can't replicate like
let's say the person who you most admire
and they're killing it on social and
they do a talking head video every
single day and they're phenomenal
Storyteller and you're like I am
terrible on camera well unless you're
planning on getting really good at that
you better start watching somebody else
who's creating the type of content that
you can
reproduce maybe it's b-roll content
where we're just hearing your voice
over right so you're teaching something
very remarkable something that people
want to say something people want to
share it's it's interesting it's
entertaining it's valuable for people
and so they're like oh I this is the
solution I was looking for you can do
that by creating a voiceover and just
putting b-roll on top of it there's
other ways for you to kill it in your
Niche but you got to get better at
creating reals at creating carousels at
understanding like what is entertaining
what grabs people get good at creating
hooks when people see a post from you if
you don't grab and hold their attention
in the first two seconds you're done I'm
sorry it's just the way I don't make the
rules that's social media friends it is
literally the first second maybe even
two seconds so you've got to do that
with your verbal hook or your visual
hook or something that's on the screen
that people are like I can't SC scroll
this is for me or I want to know what
this is I'm entertained I'm curious what
is this you've got to grab them and
that's a skill how are you filming and
editing your content frankly today if
you're not great at editing if you
haven't mastered a few of the apps that
we talk about here all the time like
video leap and cap cut um you need to
it it's kind of like learning a second
language and they're all available on
your phones there's tons of videos on
YouTube where many of you are watching
build your tribe right now so you can
you can see my living room you can maybe
even let's see if you can see my my
dog kind of we are fostering a pitbull
that is so sweet her name is Penelope
and we're trying to find her a good home
I think actually I really really want to
keep her but Brett says it's just
realistic and then we wouldn't be able
to foster a lot of other dogs but and
I'm not joking I'm not trying to sell
you this dog right now cuz I really want
to keep her this is the most perfect dog
on the planet and when I film another
record another build your tribe and I
update you if we found a good home for
her just please know I'm going to be
happy for her and I'm going to be
devastated for me because this is the
most perfect pit bull I mean she's so
sweet and I never I was never like a pit
bull fan but like this is H wow and
they're such an overlooked breed she was
a we believe she was a mother at a at a
puppy mill based on physical attributes
and her her temperament anyways I love
this dog sorry back to our message some
things you want to look at is your
engagement climbing are people don't
worry about like so much but are you
getting new followers if your content's
great you you would be getting new
followers if your content is good you'd
be getting shares and saves You' be
getting engagement that's not you know
irrelevant it's engagement where people
are asking you questions and wanting to
go further in the conversation the
direct messages if these things aren't
happening then I need to give you some
tough love and it's something you
probably already know you've got to get
good at social media and you have to
stop telling yourself the story that you
just you just don't have what it takes
yes you do you just haven't learn the
right strategies you have to stop saying
to yourself well I don't look this way
or I don't speak that way or I don't
have this you know whatever fill-in the
blank belief you have in your head it's
all false and I can disprove every
single one of those with somebody who's
killing it who has the same thing you
have that you're considering a
limitation the thing that's holding you
back right now is your mindset around
social
media it is something you can get much
much much better at and in doing so you
can grow your business you've got two
Alternatives you can get a lot better at
social media or you can pay for paid
advertising and frankly it's really hard
to get good at paid advertising unless
you're going to pay an agency because
paid advertising is dependent upon you
creating content that you can run ads to
that people will actually want to watch
so even if you're just paying for
advertising you even if you don't have a
following if you don't how to create
great social media content then your ads
are going to suck frankly so you'd have
to hire an agency which is even more
expensive and you can do that I don't
want to dissuade you I know people I I
have a friend who's built a
multi-million doll coaching business
multi-million dollar coaching business
and she's horrible horrible at social
media and she's like I don't care I
don't I don't have to be good at social
media I'm paying an agency they create
the ads I'm just reading the scripts I'm
giving them the content that they need
but like I don't want to get good at
social media but the trade-off is she's
she's got to pay for the advertising and
that that's you know I'm just giving you
some tough love and telling you that is
an option the other option as I said is
you getting a lot better at social media
now obviously you know that Brock and I
love helping people to grow their
Instagram I would love for you to try
insta clubhub you can do a trial for $7
and if it's not right for you you can
just cancel but what I think you'll find
while you're doing that trial is you can
binge tons of content and figure out
what it is you're doing wrong like when
you become an insta clubhub even if
you're doing the trial you're going to
take a quick assessment so you can
figure out like where are you missing
the mark what level are you at how much
more growth what do you need to learn in
2025 so that you can kill it so that
people find you and the solution that
you have as it relates to your Niche
listen I believe in you I know you can
do this it's fun I mean it's why you
chose entrepreneurship you love the
challenge of this I know you do so think
of it as a competition against yourself
promise yourself that you're going to
get better at social media pick one
thing at a time like maybe this week the
only thing you're going to work on is
Hooks and um maybe next week you're
going to work on your call to action and
all of these things including editing
including your engagement all these
things we break them down step by step
by step inside insta clubhub and of
course I would Brock and I would love to
have you as a part of our community you
can check out the link below this
episode or just go to insta
clubhub.com insta clubhub.com hey thank
you so much for joining me today on this
edition of build your tribe it is my
goal to be brief to be bright to be fun
and then done and now we're done bye see
you next time